# sningo
Proof of concept Clingo meta programming implementation of paraconsistent AFT semantics

## Description
This repository accompanies a work entitled Paraconsistent Semantics for Extended Fuzzy Logic Programs via Approximation Fixpoint Theory[^1].
It contains meta programs for use with [Clingo](https://potassco.org/clingo/), which encode the common semantics based on Approximation Fixpoint Theory for extended logic programs.

Extended logic programs extend normal logic programs with classical negation—that is, they permit both default negation (describing the absence of a proof for the truth of an atom) and classical negation (describing the presence of a proof for the falsity of an atom)—in a way that permits a model to make both an atom and its classical negation true at the same time (i.e. for it to be paraconsistent).

## Notes on implementation
As it stands, the meta progams in this repository are expected to be used with reified logic programs that differs in several ways from those ordinarily generated by `clingo --output=reify`.
1. Gringo makes several simplifications to a logic program when grounding it. For example, atoms deemed factual are removed (or rather, merged). These simplifications speed up solving with Clingo's default semantics, but break the semantics we implement. It is therefore required to prevent these simplifications from being performed by, for example, marking every atom as `#external` in the input logic program.
2. Clingo represents classical negation in a logic program using minus (e.g. `-a`). These strongly negated literals are then treated as fresh atoms, and combined with an (implicit) integrity constraint (`:- a, -a`). This approach works when inconsistency is forbidden, but does not suffice for semantics that permit paraconsistency. Classical negation should therefore be encoded using the predicate `snot\1` instead (e.g. `snot(a)`).
3. For the time being, the meta programs require explicit input about the negation relation. This means that the reified logic program should include a fact `symbolStrongNegationOf(snot(a),a).` for every strongly negated literal–positive literal pair in the original program.

It remains future work to write an alternative grounder that takes care of these factors automatically.

The file Example3.rlp provide an example of how an extended logic program (in this case, Example 3 from the paper[^1], listed in Example3.lp) can be correctly reified.

## How to use
1. Ensure Clingo is installed on your machine. See: [Clingo releases](https://github.com/potassco/clingo/releases)
2. Reify your logic program as specified above.
3. Solve using your desired semantics by calling `clingo YOUR_REIFIED_LOGIC_PROGRAM.rlp DESIRED_META_PROGRAM.lp 0`. (note the `0`, which ensures all models are enumerated.)

The semantics are encoded as follows:
| File | Semantics |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| supported.lp | Supported model (fixpoints of the immediate consequence operator) |
| KripkeKleene.lp | Kripke-Kleene semantics (least fixpoint of the immediate consequence operator) |

(i.e. Kripke-Kleene, supported models as regular fixpoints, stable models as stable fixpoints, and well-founded)

[^1]: TODO paper citation
